[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I'm sure
there are times when we've all
wondered if our
earthly behavior was
going to get us into the
good place after our deaths.
We may have also
wondered if we were
going to go to the bad place
and what that might be like,
if we believed in such things.
Today's guest, Dr.
Rajiv Parti, was
able to experience both during
his near-death experience,
and he's here to tell you
that one is definitely
better than the other.
It's wonderful to have you here.
I have to say, I thoroughly
enjoyed your book.
>>RAJIV PARTI: Thank you.
It's my pleasure to be here.
>>REGINA: It was
just a wonderful--
it was, I think, the most
frank look at one's own life
that I have ever seen.
I've interviewed
quite a few people
who've had near-death
experiences, and even
Doctor Raymond Moody,
you know, and many.
>>PARTI: Yeah, I've
been to his house.
>>REGINA: Yes, and he's a lovely
gentleman, and because you're
now out in the circuit
yourself, but I
have to say what was so
different about you is that you
had this ability to
articulate kind of the less
pleasant aspects of your
own character in life
like nobody else I'd seen.
It was so deeply honest and raw.
And it made the book just
come alive in its reality,
but it also set up
why you ended up
sitting on the precipice
there of the bad place.
[LAUGHTER]
>>PARTI: That's so
true, that's true.
>>REGINA: So let's just
talk about your career.
You're an
anesthesiologist-- and we'll
get into the way you
were living your life,
but I want to kind of
follow through your book.
And start with your
experience of the frozen man.
What you were doing, that
was really risky surgery,
and what happened afterwards.
>>PARTI: You know, I was chief
of anesthesia at Bakersfield
Heart Hospital,
where I specialized
in doing surgery and
giving anaesthesia
for surgeries of the heart.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And
>>PARTI: There was
one special procedure
where we had to replace
the aorta, which
is the main artery, which
comes off the heart.
And in that procedure, the
only way it could be done
was what is called by
arresting the heart
and freezing the patient.
>>REGINA: And when
you say freezing,
what happens to their
blood and how low does
the body temperature go?
>>PARTI: We go
down to 16 degrees.
It's called hypothermic
total circulatory rest.
>>REGINA: It's amazing
a body can survive this.
>>PARTI: And there's no
blood going anywhere.
And there's no brain functions.
We monitor the waves,
they're flatline, almost.
And kidneys are not working,
liver's not working,
heart is open.
I have even wondered,
is this patient alive,
and then you thaw--
and you have heard about animals
freezing and they wake up?
You warm up the patient,
the heart starts working,
the brain starts working.
But we only have limited
time, about 50 to 60 minutes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because I think
there would be permanent brain
damage.
>>PARTI: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: There's
very high chance
because there's no oxygen
going to the brain.
>>REGINA: Right.
So let's talk about
what happened.
>>PARTI: So that
patient, when he woke up,
he was describing to me
what happened in surgery.
What we were talking about,
the surgeon told a joke.
It's very common in
anesthesia for surgeons
and anaesthesiologists
to be joking around,
to make it a little lighter.
And the surgeon
was also describing
about his mother-in-law
and all of those things.
Sometimes I wondered if
the patient could hear,
what they would be thinking.
>>REGINA: Now you know.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
But I thought this patient had
no blood going to his brain,
so probably he's hallucinating,
he had some brain damage,
and I just gave him a shot
of an antipsychotic, Haldol.
I said, he'll sleep for next
24 hours and then he'll go.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
the interesting thing
because, other people--
and nurses in particular
noticed this with patients,
where they would talk about
the experience they had,
which defies anything that
you understood as reality.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But at this
point in your life
you weren't particularly
empathetic with what
people were going through
during this process.
>>PARTI: I wasn't.
I wasn't empathetic.
I was technically
very good, but I
didn't have that
emotional connection
or empathy for my patients.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And you were living,
quote, "the good life",
and you were living
it in the way
that you were
expected to live it.
You had a wife and children.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it took you to--
I found it interesting-- an
area that you and your friends
and the elite who could
afford to live there
called the bullseye.
So let's talk about
your lifestyle,
because you'd be like
this, to get out of surgery
and check your stock portfolio.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
I had two or three
different carriers,
like almost I was trading
stocks also in the morning,
because I was living
in California--
I still live there--
at 6:30 in the morning,
it's 9:30 in New York
when the stock market opens.
So when I was driving
to the hospital,
the surgeries usually
started around 7:30,
I would be talking to my broker.
Then every break I would be
talking to my broker, what
happened to Yahoo,
what happened to Apple,
these are the stocks
I was trading.
>>REGINA: Right.
So this allowed you to live--
that, and your position as
the chief of anaesthesiology--
allowed you to
live what one would
call kind of a rarefied life,
in terms of the material world.
>>PARTI: Yeah, rarefied
life, it was American dream
gone to the extreme.
>>REGINA: Yeah, talk
about the extreme.
And you do this so
well in your book.
You're a fabulous writer.
But let's talk
about it in detail,
what it meant to finally
make it into the bullseye.
>>PARTI: Yeah, exactly.
You know, I came
to America in 1982
with only a few hundred
dollars in a pocket.
I had to pass my
medical school exams
to be able to work
in the United States.
I worked as a guard, I
drove a taxi in New York,
so I had big ambitions to have
a big house, big fancy cars,
go on expensive vacations.
So finally, after--
I think that must be about 20
years after I came to America,
I had that house
on a golf course
with a big theater
in itself, and it
had a beautiful view of a lake.
And I remember my mother-- my
father passed away many years
ago--
and when my mother
came to see me,
she said your house is a palace.
My first words were "Papa
would be very proud of me."
>>REGINA: Right,
because this mattered.
I mean, this really mattered to
your father and to his father.
And we're going to
go in, later on,
to the back story of your
father and his father
and what was perpetuated by
way of emotional blockages
as a result of
that, and that made
you need to prove yourself.
So the bullseye, just
to get back to it,
is you're living in
a gated community--
>>PARTI: Double gated.
>>REGINA: Double gated.
Yeah, I was going to
say, gate within gates,
and to get to the bullseye,
the area where you had replicas
of the White House.
>>PARTI: In front of me was
a replica of the White House.
My house was like a beautiful
Mediterranean villa.
>>REGINA: Mediterranean
villa with way too many rooms
and too much square footage.
And you were driving a Hummer.
>>PARTI: Hummer
and a sports BMW.
>>REGINA: Right, and
your wife had her cars.
And everybody was well taken
care of in the material sense,
but you said it
was almost like--
I think it was almost
like a Disneyland
for the ego, is when you started
looking at it for what it was
is, what are we all trying
to prove to each other?
Wasn't it all on the
bigger is better, more
square footage is better?
>>PARTI: Even people,
there was a competition
under the competition
among our friends.
If he built a 9,000
square foot house,
I'm going to build
at least 9,500.
And I even know of a
friend who added the room
to make the square footage more.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I just find it so--
I mean, in one way it's kind of
comical when you look at it now
from the outside, but
it causes vast amounts
of anxiety, stress, and pain
when you're inside that life.
>>PARTI: That's very true.
My mortgage almost
tripled or quadrupled
from a previous house,
and I was working
from 40 hours to 60, 70
hours to pay the mortgage.
And I used to joke
with my friends,
do I own the house
or the house owns me?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: I was
working for the house.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
And how did your friends'
experiences-- did they ever
question it themselves?
Were you all just kind of
stuck in this game of bigger
is more, and having to
prove to each other?
>>PARTI: Yeah, we
questioned it a little bit,
but then we would get together,
have a party, drink some scotch
and talk about money
and stock market,
and there was never
really a discussion
of going inwards and
questioning what are we doing.
>>REGINA: Well, this had
to take its toll somehow.
And I'm sure it did on some
of your friends as well.
But with you it started taking
its toll in the form of cancer,
and it also ended up
that you had to go
through multiple surgeries.
So tell us about that
journey and where you finally
ended up at this one surgery
that caused so many problems.
>>PARTI: What happened was I was
living a very stressful life.
And medically, it's
proven that when
you lead a very stressful life,
your body immunity goes down.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And we all are
producing cancer cells
all the time, but
immunity takes care of it.
It destroys them.
So I had gotten-- there's
a test known as PSA.
>>REGINA: It's a what?
>>PARTI: PSA is a blood test--
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, PSA, OK.
>>PARTI: --to see
if you have any--
it's called prostate
specific antigen.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And to see if you
are-- it is a screen test.
My PSA had gone up,
and then the doctor
had done a biopsy
on my prostate.
And then one evening,
me and my wife
were sitting and having
tea in our backyard,
admiring the house--
>>REGINA: And the golf course.
>>PARTI: Golf course, where we
have come, you know, we finally
made it, then the urologist
called with the news
that I have prostate cancer.
>>REGINA: Interesting timing.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
But he said there's a
good news, bad news.
The good news was it was
in very early stages,
and the bad news was
that it's cancer.
So I flew all the way to
Florida to get it operated,
because I did not want to
have a full open surgery.
I wanted to have a laparoscopic.
There was one doctor who
was doing laparoscopically.
>>REGINA: In Florida, OK.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
And then when I came back,
I did have complications
like, I would have
incontinence, I was not
able to control my bladder,
and then repeatedly
were the anastomosis was, after
the prostate was taken out,
it would get scarred.
>>REGINA: So you really were
having a blocked urethra?
>>PARTI: Exactly, repeatedly
from the scarring.
So they had to go and
lance the scar or laser it.
>>REGINA: So this
happened a few times.
>>PARTI: Yeah, about six times.
>>REGINA: And then,
finally on December 20--
tell us what led up to that.
>>PARTI: Then what happened,
two years had passed,
and I was still not able to
control my bladder function.
And it was a nuisance.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: And so
finally I went to UCLA
and they implanted a
device where I could
control my bladder function.
And that was done
about 10th of December
or so, but unfortunately
after that surgery,
I developed severe
infection, very high fevers
going up to 105, and
I was becoming septic.
Septic is when the
infection becomes severe
and it goes into the blood
and that can be very fatal.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: Especially if one
goes into septic shock.
So we had to rush to
emergency room at UCLA
in Los Angeles from
Bakersfield, and that's
when they did the emergency
surgery to take the device out.
>>REGINA: Now let's just
back up for a moment
before we go there, and
that is doctors are not
particularly good patients.
It sounds like-- I mean, I hear
this again and again, where
you can oftentimes
even ignore symptoms,
thinking it doesn't
matter, whatever
it is, we know how to fix it.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: There's a kind of
almost a false confidence
that because you have
the tools to do so,
you can come in
at the last minute
and do miracles on each other.
>>PARTI: Yeah that's so true.
>>REGINA: You don't
take care of yourselves.
>>PARTI: We forget that
we are human beings
too with a human body.
>>REGINA: Right
>>PARTI: Because
society and we, ourself,
put ourselves on a pedestal,
that we are kind of super--
you we have super immunity
or super strengths.
>>REGINA: Yeah, not true.
And so you ignore
symptoms as a group,
and then you figure you'll
save each other when
it comes around.
So now you really-- this
time you needed saving.
>>PARTI: I needed saving.
>>REGINA: So now it's
just before Christmas,
is that correct, the 23rd, which
your family had celebrations
ready to go.
and you were looking
forward to the season
and you were
feeling really sick.
>>PARTI: I was really sick.
So they had to do
an emergency surgery
on Christmas Day, because
they tried antibiotics
and that was not
having any effect.
And during the emergency surgery
was to take the device out,
because when there's
a foreign body
and it becomes a
source of infection,
then it has to be taken out,
there's no way around it,
after the antibiotics fail.
>>REGINA: And by this time,
your whole pelvic cavity
is full of infection.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I mean, it's
just really awful.
We won't go into
the details what it
means to release all of that.
But you have to go
through that process.
So let's talk about what
happened then after that--
during that.
>>PARTI: During surgery,
about 20 minutes in surgery,
my blood pressure
fell and I saw myself
floating near the
ceiling, and I could see
what the surgery was going on.
And the anaesthesiologist
told a joke,
which I remembered very well,
but I can't write in a book
or tell you because it
was not a clean joke.
>>REGINA: Yeah, off-color
>>PARTI: Off-color, exactly.
Because as I told
you before, we try
to keep the atmosphere light.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And from there I
traveled to different realms.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And one of
the realms I went to
was what is described
in Indian culture,
or even, to some extent,
Judeo-Christian culture,
called Naraka.
>>REGINA: Which is
hell, basically hell.
But before you went
there, I thought
what was really interesting
is the men in your lineage
had raised each other to
be something, but harsh,
because of the pain
they had endured.
Very harsh values.
The place you went
was to your sister
and your mother first in India.
>>PARTI: India.
>>REGINA: Making lentil
soup, dal, right?
>>PARTI: Yeah, dal, exactly.
And it was evening time
there, and it was winter.
>>REGINA: And it's
like you said,
when you were out of your body,
if you turned your head one
direction you were watching the
surgeons and what was going on.
But if you turned your
head the other direction
you were with your
mother and sister.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about your experience
and why you went
there and the love.
>>PARTI: And the love
was there, and because--
I discussed this
with Dr. Moody also--
because in the other realm,
time and space are not there.
So you can be in two
places at the same time
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: That was
very shocking to me.
>>REGINA: Because you didn't
believe in any of this, really.
>>PARTI: I didn't.
>>REGINA: Although, just
as a little back story,
you had gone into some
comparative religious study
when you were in your youth.
>>PARTI: Yeah, when I was 18.
>>REGINA: 18 years old.
So you knew a little bit about
some of the beings and such,
but that's not
where your life was.
>>PARTI: No, when
I came to America--
>>REGINA: That was all gone.
>>PARTI: It was all gone.
>>REGINA: Material world here.
>>PARTI: Material.
>>REGINA: Hummer.
>>PARTI: Hummer.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: The bullseye.
OK, so just explain a little
bit about that feeling
and what happened when
you tried to connect
with your mother
and your sister.
>>PARTI: But they could
not hear me, but I--
about a week later or
so when I was well,
I called them and I described
the whole conversation--
>>REGINA: That they were having.
>>PARTI: They were having.
They were shocked.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Because this is different.
Now most people don't have that.
Sometimes they'll
go with one person,
but they're not necessarily
bilocated like you were.
You could hear conversations
in both domains.
>>PARTI: Both domains.
>>REGINA: And so what
I found interesting is
that when you got
out of your body,
the place your
being chose to take
you was to your
mother and sister,
because you were
observing this kind
of feminine connection,
genuine connection and love
between them.
>>PARTI: And between them, and
I was very connected to my mom.
We have the same birthday.
My father used to tell
my mom what else do you
want for birthday?
I gave you a son.
>>REGINA: Right,
and you were trying
to reach in and touch her, even.
They couldn't feel you.
They couldn't hear you.
>>PARTI: No.
It's like the movie "Ghost".
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: You know, that movie
"Ghost" when he tries to talk?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: It was like that.
>>REGINA: And so after you
visited your mom and sister
and realized you couldn't
really interact with them, then
what happened?
>>PARTI: Then I found
myself in a hellish realm.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
what that was like, from what
you could feel and see.
>>PARTI: I could
hear souls crying,
and I was being kind of tortured
too, and I was crying for help.
It was very painful, and I
did not want to be there.
And the person who
showed up was my father.
>>REGINA: And you
heard words, too.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: There were
words about not living.
You weren't making love, in the
truest sense, with your life.
>>PARTI: Yeah, my father
told me that you are not
living a purposeful life.
And he repeated the words what
he had told me on his deathbed.
And the words-- he
said it in Indian,
but translated
into English were,
if you keep your
consciousness clear,
the divine, the universe
will take care of you.
>>REGINA: And you
were not in that zone.
>>PARTI: I was not in that zone.
For me, getting
ahead, no matter what,
how many toes I have to step
on, was the primary goal.
I was a typical
alpha, charging male.
Get ahead at any cost.
I remember so many patients
that wanted to talk to me.
I had a pain management
practice, too.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And we used to see--
I was the fastest.
I could see six
patients in one hour.
And 10 minutes per patient
is very little time.
>>REGINA: To really
understand the nature of pain.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
But what I did was
write a prescription
for Vicodin or
narcotics, and they
would want to talk to me, where
I said, take a prescription.
>>REGINA: Right, and even
with these other experiences,
it's like you give them
an anti-psychotic drug.
>>PARTI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Just
write them a script,
get them out of your
face so you can go check
on the stock portfolio.
>>PARTI: That's so true.
>>REGINA: And at the
same time, because you
had these problems going on
in your life with your body,
you were becoming addicted
to pharmaceuticals.
>>PARTI: Exactly.
I was prescribed, because
of the surgeries I had,
I was prescribed pain
medicines myself,
and I became
dependent upon them.
You'd be surprised.
In America narcotics
now are a bigger problem
than illegal drugs.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>PARTI: Prescription narcotics.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Well, when you look at the stats
that doctor care, medical care
is the third or fourth
leading cause of death,
a huge part of that has
to be prescription drugs.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: These are
astounding numbers.
Why is the medical industry
not paying attention to this?
>>PARTI: Because
people like me, who
want to just give
the prescription
and not look good at alternate
ways of helping the patient.
>>REGINA: Well, that is true.
So now you're paying
for it, you're
on the precipice of
basically a hellish realm.
Souls are screaming
out in suffering.
And what else did you
observe about that realm,
because most people
I've done these--
>>PARTI: There was fire.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>PARTI: There was fire and
there was a thunderstorm.
>>REGINA: Thunderstorm.
Oh, you said, these thickening
black clouds and clap
of thunder.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
And I was very terrified,
and I had tears in my eyes,
and I was in pain.
And that's when my
father showed up.
>>REGINA: And your
father and you
had a challenged relationship.
>>PARTI: A very
challenging relationship,
because my father was a product
of the partition of India.
In 1947, Pakistan
came in to being.
>>REGINA: Pakistan, yeah.
>>PARTI: And it was
based on religion.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: My family
is a Hindu family,
and my family was living
on what became Pakistan.
>>REGINA: Which is Muslim.
>>PARTI: Which is Muslim.
So there was genocide
on both sides.
>>REGINA: Talk about
that a little bit,
because a lot of
Americans in particular
don't understand our
history all that well,
and what happened there?
So they can have a little
bit of a glimpse into what's
happening today, even.
>>PARTI: Oh yeah,
that's very true.
So basically since
the politics was there
and they divided the
country based on religion,
the Muslims wanted to
get rid of all Hindus,
and Hindus wanted to
get rid of all Muslims.
So they just started
butchering each other.
>>REGINA: And there
was mass genocide.
>>PARTI: There
The whole cities
would be burned,
the whole houses would be
burned with people alight.
So people would run away.
When my father was 18,
and he ran-- whole trains
used to be massacred.
A train would be at a
stop and the opposite
would come and kill everybody.
So my father came hiding
among dead bodies.
>>REGINA: And he-- when he made
his way over from Pakistan, it
was assumed that
he was a Muslim.
>>PARTI: Because he was
wearing Muslim clothes.
>>REGINA: From the culture.
And so the humiliation
he had to go through,
I found just really--
not just sad, but
very touching also,
in that the Hindu population
is not circumcised
and the Muslim population is.
So he would go somewhere and
they would pull his pants down
in public, have him
pull his pants down
to prove that he was a Hindu.
And this wasn't just one time.
>>PARTI: Few times.
>>REGINA: A few times.
>>PARTI: And he lost
contact with my grandmother.
For two years my
grandmother didn't know
if my father was alive or not.
>>REGINA: Right.
So this was a really
cruel time in history.
His experience was such that he
was repeatedly humiliated, lost
contact with the people
he loved, and let's
talk about the rest of his
journey, then, after that,
after he made it.
>>PARTI: After he
moved to India,
his education was cut short.
>>REGINA: His what?
>>PARTI: Education--
>>REGINA: Was cut short.
Yes.
>>PARTI: He could not become
what he wanted to become.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: So he was kind of
living his life through me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: Pushing me
harder and harder.
And actually, in my 10th
grade, I got into bad company,
I was smoking and drinking
and I flunked my 10th grade.
But he was very strict.
He beat me up.
I was abused by
today's standard,
but even by that standard,
with a baseball--
it was a cricket bat, but
I'll call it a baseball bat.
>>REGINA: He'd hit you
with a baseball bat.
>>PARTI: And my mother
used to protect me.
She would come in between.
But he dragged my
mother out of the room.
It's still very
vivid in my mind.
>>REGINA: Of course.
And so he actually
had pushed you
to the point where you really
had to focus in your studies.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And
ultimately you ended up,
as just a very small
percentage of young people,
who make their way
to medical school.
>>PARTI: It is very hard to get
into medical school in India.
Only one in 100,000 or one
in 200,000 get selected,
and I got selected in
three medical schools.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
And that was your dad's
crowning achievement.
>>PARTI: It was.
He was so proud of me that
I got into medical school.
He felt that I had made it.
And that same thing
showed up in me.
>>REGINA: So now
here's dad, and you're
standing in this place that you
do not want to go further into,
the bad place.
And your father is showing up
and he has this aura of love.
>>PARTI: Exactly, and he
was looking much younger.
And that's when I felt
that he really loved me
but he could not express.
He wanted me to be educated to
get ahead in live so he doesn't
have to suffer what
he suffered through,
because my grandfather always
used to put my father down.
There were four
brothers, my father
was the eldest, could not
become what he wanted to become.
So like a generational
thing, my father
was abused by his father,
my grandfather was also by--
it was a whole generational
trauma which was continuing.
>>REGINA: Which is interesting,
because a lot of times when
we see the reflections
in the news of India,
and about the spousal
abuse that occurs
and such, you stop and
think about it from now
your dad and your
grandfather's perspective,
where their own fathers
rode them so hard,
the scars that it
leaves emotionally.
And I would think that
it would leave also,
you'd have to cut off from
your sense of empathy.
>>PARTI: Exactly.
And we'll talk later, because
I was becoming my father,
my marriage broke down too.
>>REGINA: Well, and even more.
Now you're here, and--
well, let's go through
the experience there.
Then we'll come back to what
was happening prior to that
with your own son.
So let's go through everything
that your dad started
showing you.
Including these
incredible past lives.
That was amazing.
>>PARTI: So dad took me towards
from the realm to a tunnel.
And in the tunnel I
witnessed my two past lives.
One of the past
lives I witnessed
was that I was a farmer in
Afghanistan, opium farmer,
and I was sipping the sap
and gradually I became
addicted to the opium sap.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And that manifested
in this life as tendency
to getting addicted
to the pain medicines.
>>REGINA: Right, you had a
propensity toward addiction.
And in that life,
the people around you
that were working with
you in that business
started taking advantage of you.
You knew they were
taking advantage of you,
but you didn't care.
You were just waiting
for the next fix.
And it was under the
guise of quality testing.
>>PARTI: Quality testing, yeah.
Yeah, that's so true.
>>REGINA: So you were taking--
you were doing the opium,
I guess, probably
if you were awake
you were probably under
the influence of opium.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so your
life kind of fell apart.
Everybody took advantage of you.
It wasn't a good life.
>>PARTI: It was not a good life.
You know, these drugs
are very powerful.
Like doctors need to be
careful before prescribing.
>>REGINA: The opiate-- we'll
talk about that in a little
bit, too--
the opiate epidemic
in this country alone.
>>PARTI: Some places, we
consume 10 times more narcotics
than any other developed
country in the world.
Per person, per population.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
I think I read--
I was reading in The Week
magazine a couple of days
ago, that it's the equivalent
of if a Boeing 737 crashed
and killed every single person
on board every single day.
In the US alone.
That's how many
people are dying,
and that's expected
to go up significantly
in the next couple of years.
>>PARTI: It is, because they
take more drugs with it.
It's not just opiates they take.
They take alcohol with it,
which is also a depressant.
So this mixture is very deadly.
And nowadays, like heroin,
they are spiking with fentanyl.
And fentanyl is
actually an anesthetic
which is 100 times more
potent than morphine.
>>REGINA: Oh my god.
>>PARTI: Drugs are
being prescribed more,
but the quantity of
opium is also increasing.
That's when more
people are dying.
>>REGINA: Well, and a lot of it
is black market and repurposed
on the black market.
>>PARTI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Do you know how many
people that are dying of this
are doing it via prescription
drugs versus black market
use of the drugs?
>>PARTI: I don't know,
but prescription drugs
is much, much more than
the black market nowadays.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: Because there
is not that much control.
The controls are
coming right now.
I used to have patients who
used to go doctor shopping.
They used to go from one
doctor to another doctor
to another doctor and get
prescription from every one,
and then sell them or
use them themselves.
>>REGINA: I just find
this interesting.
I mean, like that
article was stating,
we would be in
absolute panic alarm
if we had a Boeing 737 crashing
on our soil every single day,
killing all the
occupants, and yet
it's just now starting to really
get any serious attention.
And they're still
being prescribed.
>>PARTI: Yes.
They're being prescribed
right and left.
There's big pharma, you know,
less time with the patients,
there's so many factors.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
So you're with your
father now, and he's
taken you into this life,
where you understood,
because you had also
taken some opioids.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You were
taking them as well,
so you knew the disconnection,
what it was doing in this life.
>>PARTI: Exactly.
I was emotionally becoming
unavailable to my family.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And then
the stress used
to be so much when
I used to come home.
I did not take any alcohol the
day I was on call, because I
could injure somebody
or my breath,
somebody might smell it, but
the days I was not on call,
it was routine for me to take
two or three glasses of scotch.
>>REGINA: And you were
doing these drugs.
>>PARTI: And drugs.
>>REGINA: So you were
an addict and you
had to go through that
withdrawal phase, which we'll
talk about later, because
that goes into the other part
of your story.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But let's go to
the second life, because that
was even more painful
for you to look at.
>>PARTI: In my second life I
had a scar from here to here,
and I had three wrist surgeries
prior to all this happening
because I had torn a
ligament in my wrist.
And it became a
chronic pain it's
known as RSD, Reflex
Sympathetic Dystrophy.
The pain causes
constriction of the vessel,
and then constriction
causes more pain.
There's less blood so the
hands become cold and clammy.
And that's what I
was suffering from.
I couldn't walk for six months
one time after one surgery.
And in the second
life which I saw,
I was a prince in
a medieval Europe.
I still remember the
fort in front of me.
I was whipping poor farmers.
They were in the
brown type of clothes.
>>REGINA: You were
whipping them.
>>PARTI: Yeah, with a whip.
And my soldiers were
also whipping them.
And I asked forgiveness from
them for what I had done.
In this life I asked, in
my near-death experience,
forgiveness from them.
>>REGINA: But why--
what could you
feel inside yourself that
would perpetuate that kind
of careless kind of cruelty?
They weren't doing
anything wrong.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
I mean, that was you like
being a lord, being a count,
being a prince, being cool
was kind of in the blood.
To get more money, to get more
harvest, to get more things.
>>REGINA: Like whipping a
horse in the field, even.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But humans as well.
>>PARTI: But in my
near-death experience
I realized that it was wrong,
so I asked forgiveness,
and they forgave me.
The most remarkable thing
was, after my near death
experience I never suffered
from pain in my right hand.
It's totally normal.
>>REGINA: It was released.
>>PARTI: It was released.
>>REGINA: And you met
with one of the people
there that you had whipped.
One of the people
spoke to you, right?
>>PARTI: Yeah.
And they forgive
me, essentially.
It was wrong of me
to be whipping them
for basically no reason,
to show my authority.
That was the main thing,
And after they forgave
me, I have never
suffered from pain again.
I used to have so
much of pain, and I've
been working normally with
it, using it, lifting weights,
everything normal.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
>>PARTI: That is amazing.
That's why-- this also I
discussed with Dr. Moody,
as I mentioned before--
there is no time and
space in the other realm,
so one can go back and--
>>REGINA: Instantly heal.
>>PARTI: And instantly heal.
>>REGINA: So now you've
witnessed these past lives,
and you're back
with your father.
And where did he
take you from there?
>>PARTI: Then he kind
of left me after that.
He kind of vanished.
And on the other
side of the tunnel,
I was greeted by
two angelic beings.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: Michael and Raphael.
I did not know their
names that well.
I knew they were angels,
because I was born and raised
in a Hindu faith.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And these
were Christian.
>>REGINA: And you
were waiting-- you
would have thought that
some Hindu-- your wife later
said, what do you mean?
Where were the Hindu gods?
>>PARTI: Yes, that's
what I was wondering too.
But then it made sense.
Michael is the angel of
strength and power and truth,
and Raphael is the angel of
healers, and I needed healing
and I'm a healer as a doctor.
So it made total sense.
>>REGINA: So they
came and what did
they show-- they
showed you things
and shared things with you.
>>PARTI: They shared
with me that--
they took me towards a meadow.
>>REGINA: A meadow?
>>PARTI: It was pure of a
meadow, with a river there,
and I could distinctly
hear the sound om.
And it was very nice fragrance.
And they said my life
would be changing.
My job was going to
be to serve people.
And then they took
me to a light.
The light was like a thousand
suns at the same time,
but it was not hurting.
And I was told the same thing.
Your work is not done and
your life will be different.
And from there, I suddenly
woke up in the recovery room
with a jolt.
>>REGINA: And they were--
there was a little
panic around that.
They were like, oh my
god, that was a tough one.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Your body
had been through a lot.
>>PARTI: Through a lot.
And the first thing was, when
I was in the recovery room,
I was so excited.
I was in pain, but I
was telling the nurse
what happened while she
was applying the monitors.
And she believed
it because she had
heard similar things before.
When the anaesthesiologist came
to check on me, I told him,
but he was skeptical, and
I told him the joke also.
And he said maybe you
were light on anesthesia.
But then it was, I
checked the records,
I was not light on
anaesthesia, and I had no pain.
If it was light in anesthesia
I would've been in pain.
>>REGINA: Yes .
So this was a real-- this
presented a quandary for you,
because you hadn't
believed anyone before,
and you thought how am I
going to translate any of this
to the people in my life?
No one will believe me.
And no less, to
know that you had
to give up your job,
meaning you were probably
going to have to give
up a lot of your stuff,
and you were going to have to
literally recreate yourself out
of whole cloth and didn't
even know how to do that.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
That is so true.
But I've transformed so much.
That was for me and my
wife, especially my wife
and near ones that
something really did happen.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Well, first you had
to deal with your wife
and tell her what
happened, what you saw,
and that your life
was going to change.
And then the whole
thing about finding
classically Christian archangels
rather than Hindu gods.
>>PARTI: So we had a
whole conversation.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: My wife
believed me when she
saw I was a different person.
My daughter started
believing me, but my sons--
I have two sons and one
daughter-- were skeptical.
They were kind of agnostic.
But they liked the new dad.
>>REGINA: They
liked the new dad.
But there was still a little
bit of time in between,
because you were riding your
son as hard, really, in a way--
not beating him-- but as
far as your expectations
for him to become a doctor,
as your father was you.
>>PARTI: Exactly.
My father was showing
up through me.
I was not physically
abusive to him,
but I was equally emotionally
and verbally abusive to him.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: I pushed him
to go to medical school,
and if he flunked I used
to get so mad at him.
Why can't you do it?
You have the brains.
You can do it.
You're spending all
your time on Xbox.
This, that.
I had thrown [INAUDIBLE]
Xbox on the floor.
And he wanted to
go in computers.
>>REGINA: Right,
that's what he loved.
>>PARTI: He loved that.
>>REGINA: So your son and
you had a fairly emotionally
distant kind of
relationship as a result.
And when you came
back, let's kind of
go through a little
bit chronologically.
First of all, you had to
go through withdrawals
from all of the drugs
that you had been on.
>>PARTI: But it was
not that difficult.
>>REGINA: Because you'd been
through this experience.
>>PARTI: Through
this experience.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And another thing
you did that was interesting,
to start making your
life more manageable
so you could even imagine
how you could continue
to afford to do what you do
without your job, was you
swapped houses.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
The way the universe works, my
house was almost a $3 million
house, which is a big
house in Bakersfield.
It's hard to sell those houses.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>PARTI: And there
was a plastic surgeon
who had a smaller house
from his residency days.
And I wanted to downsize my
lifestyle and everything,
and he wanted to upscale.
>>REGINA: Super size.
>>PARTI: Super size it.
So we literally
exchanged our houses.
There was no real
estate agent involved.
We just went to a escrow company
and we did the paperwork.
>>REGINA: Now after that
happened, how did your wife
feel on the news
that you were going
to be leaving your job,
which you did, and downsizing
your life?
Because she'd gotten
used to all these perks.
>>PARTI: She was
used to the perks,
but in the beginning
part, because
of her marriage and
everything, she supported me.
And marriage was much,
much better also,
because I was a
different person.
I was more sympathetic, I
was more listening to her.
But then the second part will
come when we reach there.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And then your son, finally one
day you were all in the kitchen
together, and you
finally asked him,
do you even want to be a doctor?
>>PARTI: I finally asked
him and he said no.
And he had just
flunked his exam.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: And he was expecting
me to be very angry.
But I said, no, beta--
beta means "my son"--
beta, do whatever
you want to do.
And he said he wants
to go into computers.
And fast forwarding
to now, he's just
graduated from computers at
University of San Francisco
and found his job and his
passion and he's very happy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's wonderful.
>>PARTI: He's not making
the money he would have made
as a doctor, but--
>>REGINA: But he loves his life.
>>PARTI: He loves his
life and he's happy.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK.
And so you've informed
everyone, you've
informed your colleagues
you're leaving,
and now you start
meditating regularly
and you start finding your way.
How am I supposed
to help people.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And what
started there?
>>PARTI: And also
I sold my Hummer.
>>REGINA: You sold
your Hummer, right.
>>PARTI: And I bought
a Toyota hybrid.
>>REGINA: A Toyota hybrid, yeah.
>>PARTI: And my lease
of my excess sports car
expired, I let it go.
And the car I bought,
the hybrid was--
I bought it because
I wanted to--
otherwise I was changing
cars every three years.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: But now I
still have that one.
And I kid with my
friends, my life
went from Hummer to hybrid.
>>REGINA: Right.
And how did your
friends take all that?
Did they stay with you,
or did some of them
say, he's not one of us anymore?
>>PARTI: I was not one
of them, because when
I went to the same parties
as I was used to go to,
all they talked about
was money, stocks,
and the new rules of everything,
I didn't feel at home.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
can understand that.
So now your wife initially
feels good, but then
things start changing
in your personal life.
And let's talk about that
journey of the kind of work
you started doing, but what
was happening at home as well.
>>PARTI: At home,
I started going
to lectures to get the skills
of what I was supposed to learn.
I learned Ayurveda.
I trained in meditation
of Deepak Chopra.
Because the consciousness-based
medicine is based
on the principle--
like, actually, Einstein said,
the solution to the problem
cannot be found at the
level it was created,
level of consciousness
it was created.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: So like
addiction, depression,
heart diseases which
are stress-related,
if you elevate your
level of consciousness
through prayer, meditation,
and service, these are three
because I tell people, seva
means service and service is
not as a pity, but as
honoring, giving me an honor
to serve you.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: You see yourself--
>>REGINA: It can't be pious.
>>PARTI: It cannot be pious.
Exactly
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And then meditation.
I believe meditation is when
God talks to you and prayer
is when you talk to God.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so this became your
practice, and sometimes
hours a day.
>>PARTI: Yeah, this
became a practice.
>>REGINA: And you were
waiting to be shown
the way forward for yourself.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
And in the meantime I was
going out and I became--
I did not have this idea, but
my marriage was breaking down.
And one day about three
years, ago my wife
finally says, I don't love
you and I have not loved you
for the last two years.
It was a shock.
Literally, I felt like a dagger
was put through my heart.
>>REGINA: Right.
Because she married
one guy and you
turned into a different
person, for one.
>>PARTI: And then I found out--
that's what kid with my wife and
my friends, there are Raj 1.0--
>>REGINA: Which was--
>>PARTI: Before
near-death experience.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And then
there's Raj 2.0
after the near-death experience.
So I was not the Raj 1.0
which my wife married.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: She's married hard
charging, making good money,
with good position, alpha male.
And so she became distant
and our marriage broke down.
Our marriage literally had
a near-death experience.
From no love, we
filed for divorce,
and we were one signature
short of divorce.
>>REGINA: And going
your separate ways.
>>PARTI: Going
our separate ways.
>>REGINA: And then
what happened?
>>PARTI: Then it was
in a universe or magic;
how strange it works, it
was in December of 2016
and our 30th anniversary
was just coming up.
So my wife said, [NON-ENGLISH]
do you want to give it a chance
and finish 30 years of marriage?
I said, why not?
I've lived with you for so
long, had three kids with you,
let's give it a shot.
And from there, I
was now Raj 3.0.
I had started applying
the lessons I had learned
from near-death experience.
The biggest lesson was
the power of forgiveness.
And I became a kinder, and I
started practicing forgiveness,
that she realized that
she can really love me.
And it was like a fairy tale.
Then six weeks later,
on 12th February,
we burned the divorce papers.
>>REGINA: You burned
the divorce papers?
>>PARTI: Like a--
>>REGINA: Yeah,
a little bonfire.
>>PARTI: A bonfire.
In India, we do
bonfires with mantras,
so we were let it go,
like, past is past.
>>REGINA: So what
happened between you
that allowed you to
feel each other again,
besides that one decision?
After that decision?
What opened up again?
>>PARTI: You know
what opened up again
was our communication and
power of forgiveness and love.
Because when I took my wife
out for dinner the evening
we were reconciling, I said
what do you want from me?
And she said three words.
Respect, care, and love.
And the order she said it
was very important, too.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: She wants
to be respected
as an equal,
different but equal,
she wants to be cherished and
cared for, and then loved also.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And
previously I loved her,
but coming from an
Indian background,
coming from my
father's generations,
and that was what I call
a vertical relationship.
Husband at top, then
the wife, and then kids.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: So now it was a
horizontal relationship,
me and you are
equal but different.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: And I started
cherishing her,
sending her flowers for no
reason, just to say I love you,
and now I'm so happy.
In last one and a
half, two years,
it has been the best time
in 30 years of our marriage.
>>REGINA: You said
off-camera when
we were talking that it's
like you're teenagers again.
You're in love anew.
>>PARTI: You know, if
you look at my text,
when we put the code
for Wi-Fi, there
were 10 texts which came up,
and they were all from my wife.
I love you, you'll
do good, miss you,
with all hearts and
everything, emojis of hearts.
That's like teenagers.
We have to text each other
almost every two hours.
>>REGINA: But you had to really
tear yourself down to the bones
of what you were as
a being, as a soul--
>>PARTI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --to get there.
>>PARTI: I had to
remake myself again.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about now.
You have this book
out, and how you're
putting yourself into the
world and working with people.
>>PARTI: Now what happened,
was because of my heartbreak
and healing people's
heart, and my heart
was healed, using the lessons
from my physical near-death
experience, I'm helping
people, especially
women who are coming to me
more now, with heartbreaks.
>>REGINA: Well, heart
disease is on the rise.
Huge, dramatic increase
in heart disease in women.
>>PARTI: Because of stress.
People used to think
that heart disease is
a disease of the male.
A plus personality.
But it's equally
prominent among women.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I've looked at that.
And it seems to me part of it
is that we still, as beings,
as human beings and souls, have
the same needs, like she said,
to have the love, to be
cherished, to have respect
and so forth.
Yet what happened
over the last 40 years
is that the women became
really almost the dominant part
of the workforce.
And yet you still have the
children you have to raise.
You still have to do
what else has to be done,
depending on the amount of
money you make, cook and clean
and so forth, and the stress
is absolutely overwhelming.
>>PARTI: Overwhelming.
Too much is expected of women.
Giving an example,
I'm being a partner
with her and everything.
Previously I would
sit while she was
cooking after coming home work.
But now, I don't
know how to cook,
but I'm cutting
her vegetables, I'm
getting her the
things she needs,
I'm peeling the
vegetables, chopping
the onions, whatever I can.
So I'm with her in the
kitchen, and she loves it.
>>REGINA: Yes,
that makes cooking
a joy instead of a drudgery.
>>PARTI: Yeah,
it's a partnership.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: So now what we
have is true partnership
and friendship.
>>REGINA: And she's a
dentist, as I recall?
>>PARTI: She is a dentist.
>>REGINA: She's so she's
still doing her day job.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But your day job
now, do you have an office
or a clinic or how does--
>>PARTI: I'm moving to
Santa Cruz right now,
so I'm going to take
up an office there,
but right now I work primarily
through Skype and on phone.
>>REGINA: OK.
And so when people
find you, what
is the process you take
them through in your work,
and what do they most
profoundly respond to?
>>PARTI: You know,
as most of my clients
are women, for some
reason, and they're
been traumatized by different
males in their life,
and I help them
empower themselves.
Like archetypal work, or
deal with childhood traumas,
because there's so much abuse.
And that has-- the
universe is opening me.
I didn't start with
working with women,
but that's what is getting
attracted towards me.
To help women, I as a male
hold safe space for them.
>>REGINA: Which is interesting,
because that isn't what you
expected was going to happen.
You thought you would be
able to help, perhaps,
even some of your colleagues
after they fell down and became
ill.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But they're not
the ones coming to you.
The men aren't coming
in the same way.
They're not looking
for healing and help
in the same way women are now.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: What are you seeing
about that and how that's
lining up, and then looking
down at your children's
generation, the differences?
>>PARTI: Yeah, like my
children, my daughter
she is a very strong woman.
I actually named her
after a goddess in India,
and she turned out to be,
even I can't handle her.
She's so powerful and
strong, but she's very kind.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And that's what
I want my clients to be,
equal respectful for male--
masculine, and noblemen.
Men should be noblemen,
women should be like goddess,
and they can be in partnership
and everybody will be happy.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So now in your son's
generation, are
you noticing in your
own life and circle,
and also among your
clients, that--
because there is a
generational divide
in this, of the
women taking it all
on with no help from the men.
Are you finding
that the younger men
are more oriented toward
true partnership now?
>>PARTI: Yeah, my
daughter has a boyfriend,
and I write in my book,
actually, my daughter's
boyfriend is a Muslim.
I would have never
accepted that.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah,
that's a big one.
>>PARTI: Before my
near-death experience.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: But now I accept that.
Everybody's equal.
Everybody has the same rights.
And I wouldn't have accepted
that before, to be honest,
but coming from that
partnership story I just told.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: But my daughter expects
her boyfriend to be a partner,
and he is a partner, helping
my daughter all the time.
And a partnership, like somebody
is sick, you do the thing.
I cannot cook, so when
my wife is very tired,
I go and bring the
food from outside.
She feels cared for.
She feels loved.
And even love is not a noun.
It's a verb.
It is doing.
It is a state of doing.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so now what
do you recommend?
Do you also have people
work with meditation
in almost all
cases in your life?
>>PARTI: Yeah, all
of my clients I
help them start a
meditation practice,
because meditation
is when you connect
to the stillness, the awareness
within you which is unchanging.
The higher self.
If you believe in God or
soul, then it is your soul,
and you are part of
the spark of God.
Like in Bible they say
the kingdom of heaven
is within you.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: So it is within you.
But if you don't believe
in your higher self or God,
at least you believe
in your own self.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: And that's my
thing is empowerment.
>>REGINA: Now when you started
opening this up in yourself,
and direct communication with
your soul and beings beyond,
did you ever then come back
in contact with your father?
>>PARTI: I have met my
father in dreams and visions,
and he has been very helpful.
Like if I've-- even
in worldly things,
like I would like
to have a sign,
like if I'm starting a spiritual
practice or if I'm going to buy
a different house,
show me a sign.
>>REGINA: Right, and
your dad will show up.
>>PARTI: Dad will show up,
or the angel will show up
or the goddess will show up.
>>REGINA: And I think in
the story, one of the things
that's so beautiful,
which to me is
one of our primary
roles in life,
is whatever we've
inherited-- because so
many of the different
healing modalities
go into ancestral work.
And you know very directly what
your ancestor was like in terms
of the emotional patterns--
is that it seems to me
the best a person can do
is to break an ongoing
negative emotional pattern
within their
ancestral bloodline.
>>PARTI: That's so true,
and it's very needed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: It doesn't mean that
a father was an alcoholic
and abusive, you
have to turn out
to be alcoholic
and abusive, too.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARTI: There's a nature and
nurture, and both make it up.
You can change your genes.
In gene expression
nowadays, there's a new--
epigenetics.
>>REGINA: Yeah, Bruce
Lipton and others.
>>PARTI: You can change--
you may inherit
some genes, but you
can change the gene expression.
>>REGINA: So with your own
family and your own children,
by giving your son that
freedom and permission from you
to go and do what
you love doing,
by giving your daughter
a powerful name
and accepting her Muslim
boyfriend, who she's
been with for many years,
and seeing that they're
true partners, they
help each other out,
it seems to me you've done
that one amazing thing.
You have broken the chains
of your ancestral past
and the effect on your
children, and now you
have a different
outcome for from now on.
>>PARTI: And I've broken in my
own generation for myself, too.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>PARTI: So it's so wonderful,
[NON-ENGLISH] with my wife,
it is--
I don't want anything
else in life.
>>REGINA: And how
do your children
experience you
and your wife now,
now that you've become
teenagers in love again?
>>PARTI: They're very happy,
especially my daughter.
And I have a younger son,
too, and after he graduated
from high school after
my near-death experience,
and I tried to softly say,
go into medical school,
or dental school.
>>REGINA: He was
like, no, no, no.
>>PARTI: He said, no, no,
no, I want to be an engineer,
and he just graduated from
UC San Diego and found a job.
He's very happy too.
So my younger son benefited
from my interaction
with the elder son, because
by that time, the chain
was broken.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because
even after the near-death
experience, you didn't
just give it up right away
on your son becoming a doctor.
You still had to kind of
work your way to that.
>>PARTI: Because all my
friends' kids were doctors,
all my friends kids--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARTI: But my
daughter on her own
chose to become a
dentist like her mother.
We didn't push her.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, so really, now, we have
just a few minutes left.
What is it that we have not
talked about that you'd really
like to share with people
about this incredible journey
of the soul that we
tend to take for granted
and need to have so
much more respect for?
>>PARTI: You know, like
practice meditation, prayer,
and service.
Service is very important.
When your spiritual journey is--
when you move from your
own self to others.
That's what I'm trying
to do in my life.
We still have to pay bills.
We still have to make money.
But there has to be a balance.
And biggest mantra I
teach about in my book
and I tell my clients is
forgive, love, and heal.
So if you forgive--
and forgiveness is
not for anybody else.
It is for your own self.
You're not condoning
their action,
but you're letting it go.
Letting go is very
important in life.
>>REGINA: And you had
to forgive yourself.
>>PARTI: I had to
forgive myself.
So forgive yourself.
I even wrote forgive God.
I was very mad at God.
Why do things matter, and
life turn out this way?
And that way, I wrote a
forgiveness letter to God.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, Raj
number one, or 1.0,
would say, I'm a doctor,
how can you do this to me?
[LAUGHTER]
>>PARTI: That's what I'm saying.
So forgiveness is
very important.
Yourself, God, your spouse, your
children, and from that state,
life becomes bliss.
>>REGINA: And then when you talk
about service, a lot of people
think, oh my god,
I do not have time
to volunteer for one more thing.
That's not what
you're talking about.
>>PARTI: No.
>>REGINA: Talk about the essence
of service for just a moment
before we--
>>PARTI: It's the attitude.
Is Like as a doctor,
when a client, a patient
comes to them, then
you should feel
honored that he or
she is given you
the opportunity to serve them.
And if you go over that
attitude, it's different.
The patient feels the energy.
You may not believe
in energies as such--
>>REGINA: Oh, everyone
watching this does.
>>PARTI: Yeah, there
is energy transmission,
even through telephone lines,
how you interact with people.
And that's very important.
Can you imagine if
politicians really had
the idea of service and seva--
I call it in Sanskrit--
seva, the world
would be a different place.
>>REGINA: Absolutely, and just
with each other on a day in,
day out basis, rather
than rushing by not only
our partners and our kids.
We even rush by our own lives,
not paying any attention
to the clues and the
things that are happening.
Just to stop and
even just observe
what's needed in the moment and
offer that little bit of self.
>>PARTI: Yeah.
Be present now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARTI: Letting
go and being now.
>>REGINA: Well, on
that note, I want
to thank you so much for sharing
your story with us again.
I just found it
completely refreshing.
>>PARTI: It was my pleasure
and honor to be here.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Raj.
What I love about this
story is that it's real.
It's not glossed
over, to say nothing
of well-written
and entertaining.
I highly recommend this book
for anyone contemplating
the meaning of life or death.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]